We talked a little bit just
about processes just now,
the thing about processes it goes hand in
hand with something called environments.
So, let's think about environments for
a little bit,
an environment is very
much like the process.
It's the process is what's
running in the environment,
but the environment is where
your code is actually running.
So, for instance right now we're
all on a local environment or
a development environment.
But then when you go to deploy this,
you might be in a staging environment, or
a production environment.
So you have the same code running in
a different environment, which is and
it doesn't have to be a different machine.
You can have different
environments on the same machine,
an environment is just like a set of
conditions in which your code operates in.
For instance React, when you develop
what React is in development mode, okay,
until you do a production build.
In development mode,
in a development environment,
it will show you warnings about like
props and different things like that.
It'll show you warnings about like,
make sure you put the key prop on
all the child and stuff like that.
But in production,
it won't show you that, right, so
it behaves differently depending on
what environment it's running in.
And, you have the ability to change
that environment with one variable.
So we're gonna talk about those variables
how to change those environments,
and how to actually
take advantage of them.
Okay, so One important environment
variable is called NODE_ENV, you will
see this all the time working in Node.
It's basically short for node environment,
it's a string that tells node
what environment it runs in.
And and there's tons of packages that
rely on this node environment, like for
instance, React literally relies on
this environment variable to be set to
something to know whether or
not it should show certain errors or not.
Whether or not it should enable
performance or not, whether or
not it's should bundle something or not.
So many packages rely on this,
there's typically like two or
three different values for NODE_ENV.
It's usually either development
which is the default usually, and
there's production and then sometimes
there's staging or I'm sorry testing.
Okay, you can run a production
environment locally on your computer,
in fact you probably should
is to test what will happen.
You can run a development environment
on your production server somewhere.
It doesn't really matter,
it's just you telling the application
what you're running or what environment,
although you should match them up to
where they're physically running.
Any questions on that?
I'm gonna demonstrate it right quick,
we've already been using
environment variables.
This env file is environment variables,
okay, an environment variable
is a variable that gets injected
into your app when it's running.
And you might ask yourself,
why would I need that?
Well, these two things are incredibly
important, if someone got this database
URL that's got all my users in it, and
I check that URL into git on GitHub, yeah.
I mean, you might as well
just kiss your app goodbye,
like someone's just gonna
log into your database.
So how does your app get that URL
without you putting it in your code?
Well, that's what environment variable is
for, wherever you are hosting your app,
you can tell that hosting provider to say.
Hey, here are some environment variables
I need you to inject into my code, so
I can have them when it's running.
And then you can access those
variables on the process,
so you can say process environment
give me that variable.
If you don't know what it is but you
know it's there because you injected it,
in our case we injected it with
dotenv the package dotenv.
Here this injects all of our environment
variables from the dotenv file.
But when you go to production, there'll
be some GUI where you can type into,
this environment name, this value,
this environment name, this value.
And that hosting platform will inject
those variables into your app so
you can safely have them.
You ever hear like, such and
such got hacked, yeah,
seriously like left
the environment variable in git.
It's a common thing I think I can tell how
many companies have been hacked because
someone pushed up
an environment variable to git.
It's such a bad thing, there's literally
bots that will scan your code like you
[LAUGH] you left an environment
variable in your code,
you're sure you wanna do this?
It's a thing, it's that important,
so, yeah, be careful with that.